This course will provide you with a fundamentals of Unix and Linux operating systems. It will show you how such systems are organized, and demonstrate how to use them at an advanced level, which you will be able to practice on your own.

My name is Oleg Sadov. I am a lecturer and researcher at the ITMO University. I've been involved in the Unix world more than 30 years ago and have been working with Linux systems almost from the very beginning.

In this course you will be introduced to reasons why open standards and the open source development model are so important in today's computing environment. UNIX and Linux systems are used throughout the world of the Internet from smart-phones to supercomputers. And in any field of human activity from the industrial or banking sector, to the most advanced scientific research, a good knowledge of these systems will be very useful to you, regardless of whether you work as a programmer, administrator or professional in any field.

There are many reasons why it is valuable for you to learn Unix&Linux. If you are looking for new opportunities in IT, Unix/Linux skills are in high demand. Almost the entire infrastructure of the modern Internet, high-performance slasters, storage systems and big data processing are built on the basis of such systems. And for the administering of such infrastructures a good knowledge of UNIX/Linux is a big plus.

If you are developing applications, it's likely your application or its runtime is hosted on Unix or Linux. If you're working in the cloud, your cloud instances may be based on Linux, and your private or public cloud environment is also probably based on Linux. If you're working with mobile applications or the Internet of Things, it is also likely that the operating system of your device is based on Linux or UNIX. And, even if you are using Windows, often you'll need to interoperate with Linux or UNIX.

After completing this course, you will have a solid introduction to working with Unix/Linux from the command line and a good understanding of principles how these systems work. In applying these skills, you will be able to perform fundamental operational tasks, whether your Unix/Linux machine is in your hands or on a remote system across the Internet.
